(5/2021) At the time of Esper's Series B announcement, I went back and read this memo, and I have to say I don't really like it. One page is maybe 80-90% too short for a deal memo (though here, I was looking at an $80k investment rather than a lead investment.) I committed to the deal before Yadhu had joined as a cofounder, so there's no mention of him here. He was obviously an enormous get for Shiv, and the two have worked incredibly well together. And I think a number of my go-to-market ideas here are not that smart - e.g. distribution through agencies, which may one day work, but are not, could not be, and have not been a focus in the first 3 years of Esper's life. Well. I suppose that means I think I've learned something in the past 3 years. Hopefully that's the case.

_Note: A big part of Shoonya's pitch at the time involved providing low-cost hardware. In the first year, it became apparent that most customers wanted "bring your own device," and were primarily interested in Shoonya's software. This precipitated a change in focus and startegy from bundling hardware, OS, and cloud services, into providing pure software. Accordingly, Yadhu became CEO, and the company strategy shifted. More on that story in [Avidan's tweetstorm](https://twitter.com/AvidanRoss/status/1395436826685435904)._

[Read Root Ventures' deal memo, written by Kane](https://github.com/rootvc/investment-memos/blob/main/esper.md).

## Overview
Esper (fka Shoonya) is looking to bring security, fleet management, lower costs through deeply integrated supply chain, and developer-focused APIs to every company who provides touch-enabled devices either as part of their internal business systems or as part of their product and service offerings to their customers.

This term sheet is led by Root and supported by Semil Shah at Haystack - raising (redacted.)

The CEO, Shiv is a hustler. I’ve spent a couple months getting to know him, and have been impressed with his tenacity and his ability to hit aggressive milestones. He thinks in hours when other founders think in days, and thinks in weeks what I thought would take months. And so far, I haven’t seen him take no for an answer.

I see a big opportunity for companies looking to build touch-enabled devices like tablets, either 1) as a primary product like Ziosk, 2) as part of a service offering like Fivestars or 2) as part of a business process like...basically every place Windows CE is deployed today from Stitchfix (or smaller) to Amazon. Portable and wearable computers are nearly ubiquitous in operations-heavy industries such as manufacturing and fulfillment, so this size of market is clearly in the multiple $BBs.

But these customers will be interested in fleet management (upgrades, ability to shut off delinquent devices), and also in security. I've sent over a few customers to Esper and feel confident this is a real issue worth paying for. In this light, Esper functions a bit like a Red Hat for mobile in this light. It takes open source software and improves on it for a specific use case, bundling support, and also further offerings like cloud hosting that are indispensable, and allowing developers to focus on application software.

Bundling all of these services - fleet management, cloud, a development platform, and hardware allows Esper to capture a lot of value, and also offer to companies as a monthly service what used to be a capital expense. This could unlock new kinds of customers who wouldn’t have the hardware chops or the capital up front to bring a physical hardware product to market. In this sense, Esper is an enabling platform for software that depends on touch, a market that is sure to continue to grow.

The biggest upside case for this product is that in the future of ERP, businesses will want to be building and deploying applications on touch-enabled hardware in addition to or instead of desktop-first ERPs like SAP and Oracle. In this world, you can imagine an Oracle, SAP, or even Pivotal partnering with Esper to help their customers solve business operations problems that rely on physical hardware, such as operations, mobile workforce, or hardware installations like point-of-sale and other systems.
